[SWOOSH]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The holistic world of healing
includes plants and herbs,
channeling energy as well as
both spiritual and physical
modalities.
Healers are
multidimensional beings
who dance between the realms
of the seen and unseen.
These individuals
have the ability
to facilitate a shift in
people, offering them insight
and support, reconnecting people
with themselves and the greater
collective, healing the
world one person at a time,
healing from the other side.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> To see from my heart is much
more clearer than seeing with
my eyes and with my
brain cells, as they say.
And I could see the
beauty in everything.
Everything was very profound.
The visions I got of like an
iboga shaman that came to me,
and he was talking to me
about what I need to do.
And I need to toughen
up, and I need
to make the right decisions.
And it was like a
conversation with this person.
But the most important
thing in my journey for me
was that I could see
physically my body healing
from all my injuries.
So it's just taught me so much
about me that I didn't know.
I didn't know I had these faults
and these positive qualities.
And how can I use both of
these to go through life
being my authentic self?
And then at the
end of the journey,
I saw my authentic
self looking at me,
and realized that it's there.
I just need to access it.
>> I realized that chasing after
money was not what I wanted
to do for the rest of my life.
Making other people happy
and throwing my own life
away by forgetting myself
and just always chasing
after money in 2014.
There was also two burglaries,
traumatic events, a rape.
So there was a lot of trauma
that I had to work through,
and I could feel
myself slipping away
and my life just going
down the drain, up to 2014
when I lost my job in
the corporate world
and did my first iboga journey
at the previous retreat.
It had such an amazing
effect in my life
that I realized that
this is what I wanted
to do for the rest of my life.
>> The experience of ibogaine
occurs in two phases termed
the visionary phase and
the introspection phase.
The journey can last
four to six hours
and can enable people
to conquer their fears
and negative emotions.
Ibogaine catalyzes an altered
state of consciousness,
reminiscent dreaming while
fully conscious and aware
so that memories, life
experiences, and issues
of trauma can be processed.
>> I've worked at two other
retreats again as well,
up to 2017 when I met Marouf at
a Buddhist retreat, actually.
And we joined the
same retreat again.
We worked together again.
And up to 2018 we
decided to break away
and to have a more holistic
approach after the iboga
medicine.
And that is when Exclusive
Ibogaine Retreat was born.
>> I would like to add that the
biggest reason for us to open
this retreat was the fact that
the iboga retreat that we were
working at, it was a lot
of people coming in and out
in a way that it
is like a ghost.
You come in and then
go out, and there
was no family
connections and vibes
and feel like you can have that
support with the facilitator.
We felt it was just
like a grocery shopping.
>> Like a numbers--
like numbers.
>> Numbers.
>> Three to six people
came in per week.
And we felt that people
didn't get enough healing
and attention.
>> As we only do one or
two clients at a time,
we feel that you can get much
more from the medicine than
just a quick detox.
And we felt that with
ibogaine especially,
when it's done in its
natural environment,
in Gabon or Cameroon, it is like
the whole family comes together
for that one person
and everybody
assists them to heal
throughout this hard journey
of self-discovery.
When first, we can
carry this motto
with our retreat to give people
the best that they can have.
>> I was just telling
my daughter, actually--
she's in King's College and
my son-- my son is in MIT.
So we were chatting
with him on the phone,
and then I was telling
her-- she did her SATs
and she got a 1440.
So I told her, you got your IQ--
you got your IQ from your dad.
That's 100% different
from your mom.
And she said, yeah, Dad, you're
the smartest person I've ever
met, but you do the
dumbest things I've ever
seen sometimes, you know?
So you wake up and think, these
are kids that are grown up.
And you start looking back
and thinking, you know?
My son was telling me, why
don't you make a list of people
and write them all down?
And those people
that you hang around
with every weekend,
this guy and this guy
and this guy and this guy.
And if push comes
to shove, would they
be there after the binge and
after your party and what.
>> The fast-paced world is rife
with voyeuristic temptations
that occasionally lure us into
shadowy places where light is
absent from self.
>> Iboga, it's called
Tabernanthe iboga,
and it's a shrub that grows
in Gabon and Cameroon in West
Africa that was discovered by
the ancient people by going
into the jungle and eating
a porcupine, you know?
So this person
ate that porcupine
that ate from the
tree and had this very
profound truth in him.
And then when they went back
to where the porcupine came,
they found this plant.
So this plant only
grows in that side
of the world in West Africa.
The iboga tree has been
used for thousands of years.
They even discovered
some at the pyramids,
at the pharaohs' tombs,
some of the iboga.
And what the Bwiti tribe used
it for is for initiation.
It's to give it to
adolescents and young adults
so they can shed the stories
of the past, the trauma
of the childhoods and
all that conditioning,
and be their true selves so
they can help the tribe survive.
So over thousands of
years, that evolved.
And then in the
1960s, Howard Lotsof
discovered the iboga as a
treatment for his heroin
addiction by one of his
friends sending him a sample.
And he says, after 36
hours he was addiction-free
and he felt great.
And that's how iboga translated
from a shamanic practice
into the Western medicine world.
So after the discovery of
it in the Western world,
it has expanded and
expanded and started
having a major effect on people
as alternative treatments
for drug addiction.
That's how it started.
And then with time, people
discovered that it actually
has a lot to do with resetting
the body and the mind
and the spirit.
>> Visibly, I am a novice
to the whole herbal thing.
I've never tried this.
I've never tried rehab.
I don't really believe
I had any problem.
I just thought that
became habitual
and I was going down a
lane with the crowd I'm in.
And eventually, you start
realizing that it's not
so easy to come out of it.
But every day you wake up after
your hangover and after a binge
and you start thinking,
I'm better than this.
I want to change.
I want to be better.
I want to be better for my kids.
And so you start setting your
predetermined moral journey
forward.
And then the next weekend, you
drop back into that hole again.
And this is what the
consultant was saying,
that if you set your plan
and you go to a rehab,
it's just the mental
talk, the chat,
and how they can
get you through it.
But your body after 20 years
of abuse or 20-something years
has changed.
It has altered.
Your receptors have altered.
And then you change
into such a mode
that there's a physical
change in your receptors
that needs to be readjusted.
And that's why I think the
chemical ibogaine-- ibogaine
itself comes in and helps you
physically make that change.
So I mean, we have the
mindset that I'd really
like to get back
to the normal life
where running with the kids
and jogging with the dog is fun
and having a soccer game
in the garden is exciting.
And you can discover
a nice part,
and watch Netflix
in the evening.
It's OK on a Friday night,
rather than the urge to go out
and binge and party
with my friends.
So the intention is to get
back to the normal life
that we normally know
before all of this stuff.
And hopefully, I began,
without reset it.
You have to mentally
be prepared for this.
I am.
I've started a pre-detox,
pre-mental disposition
on my own before this.
And then hopefully, after this
I'll be able to continue that.
>> So we use the iboga
Tabernanthe strain, specie,
which is a big shrub of
about two meters tall.
Big, shiny leaves with
fruit, orange fruit.
The plant needs to be
between 15 to 25 years old
before the roots get the
psychoactive properties.
People come to us to
use and experience
the iboga journey for
different reasons, which
I would say about a
third of our clients
come for addiction
of illegal drugs.
A third of them come to us
for pharmaceutical abuse.
And about a third of
our clients come to us
to lift the anxiety and
depression, suicide, especially
now in the times
that we are living
in now with the lockdown,
people with severe anxiety,
depression, and
suicidal tendencies.
So that's the different
reasons, psychospiritual reasons
for people that sometimes when
they reach 40 come to realize--
they come to a crossroads
in their lives of,
what have they done
so far in the past,
and where are they going?
Are they on the right track?
Where is my life going?
And they are in turmoil.
So by doing the
iboga journey, you
get the opportunity
to sit with yourself
and let go of everything in your
past that is holding you back,
everybody that has done you
wrong, that has done you in,
and that you are
keeping grudges against.
>> What we do for them is we
first have a consultation with
them to make them--
to understand what
is the situation.
And what is it that
they need help with?
And we usually do
a video interview
to start building
that trust between us.
And then we ask them to complete
our online application form
and do the certain
tests, which are the--
it's heart tests and
liver test, the kidney
test to make sure
that their body is
able to cope with the detox
that they are going to have.
Once they did all the admin
and got the test results,
our doctor will assess
these test results
and see if it's
OK, and what we can
do to make the person
adequate for the treatment.
And it's our protocol
that way to make people
understand that this is
a commitment process that
goes on, hence the steps.
And afterwards, we ask
them to do counseling
with our ibogaine counselor.
She specializes
in helping people
to understand what they
are going to go through.
And what is it that they need
to work on to get the best out
of their ibogaine treatment?
It is usually between
two and six sessions.
It depends on the person.
And after they've
done the counseling,
we are with them
through that process.
And we speak to them about
it and we get feedback
from them about it,
and we just keep
building that trust and family
relationships with them.
Before they come, we ask them
to start to detox for at least
a week.
We usually require even longer.
It depends on the person.
But for a week we send them
guidelines how to eat healthy,
what to drink, what to not
do, to rest, to start putting
your mind and set
of intention on,
what do I want from
this medication?
What is it that I
actually want to be?
And that just helps people
that when they come here,
they know your faces.
They trust you.
They trust the fact that
you are looking after them
and making sure that they get
the best out of this process.
And then once they come
here, we welcome them and we
have lunch together.
Before the treatment,
there is a little bit
of medical procedures
that we do,
which is a drug test on site.
And then we also do what they
call a hydration drip, which
is just to give them
a little bit of power
throughout the journey.
And after that, the drip
is done and the person
feels that it's ready, we
start with the treatment.
And we go throughout
the night with them
with administering ibogaine
to them on our protocols
with the help of our paramedic.
>> With the iboga medicine,
it really opens oneself up
to really connect with your
deep subconscious mind.
It's also been
called in the jungle
to break the head open,
to wipe the slate clean.
Very big ego death
to really be stripped
of all cultural conditioning,
trauma, violence, abuse,
to really be stripped of
what has happened to you
and to really connect with
your own real around your feet
or voices in your
ear, ultimately
for the person to really fall
in love with themselves again.
>> I embarked on this
journey last night,
and it's still going on now.
And most probably the effect
of this journey should--
the physical effects should
finish by tomorrow morning.
It was a mixture full of
waves and ups and downs,
but an amazing--
an amazing night, I would say.
Flashbacks, memories, dropping
into an abyss, vibrating,
and then just being awake
within a split second.
It's very difficult
for me to even explain.
It was principally my life--
my life flashing back
all the way from the back
and highlighted
in certain points.
Principally, it's
been a bit hectic
because you have to be up,
but very, very interesting.
The crazy thing is
in the morning--
I mean, I'm not trying to say
what the final results will be,
but in the morning
I can actually
see without my glasses.
And principally
sitting in the garden,
you can hear every single
sound, every bird independently
while there are,
like, 20 of them.
So I definitely feel some
improvement in my eyesight
and in my hearing
abilities, but I'm still
a bit hazy and only able to
tell the difference maybe
a day or two.
It wasn't as tough
physically for me.
I still managed to
be coherent, and I
was able to still help myself.
But I mean, the
body's a bit tired.
This is like nonstop
without sleep.
So physically, I'm a little
bit drained, but I'm awake.
I'm home, so it'll ease off.
Like Anita said, a
small price to pay.
As a matter of fact, when
she came for last dosing,
I was-- is this the last one?
I started to enjoy the journey.
At the beginning I
was a bit worried.
It was a bit dark
because you're starting
to be drawn, like
dropping into something
and then trying to pull out.
But eventually, I went with
it and I could feel the wave,
and I was enjoying every moment
of closing your eyes and things
popping up that
you open them again
and you think of something
else, and the same.
So it felt great.
It was intense.
Definitely, it was intense.
Things I never-- were lost
in my mind came back up.
But I think in a
fine way because now
I'm thinking about them,
they don't bother me as much.
They don't bother me as much.
But it'll be a bit
more time to tell.
>> I have to say, this
morning I woke up,
I was feeling great about
our client, you know?
He's up.
You see that there's
a lot of peace
in his heart, a lot of
reflection for the future.
So we decided that we
would go visit and then
have a conversation to see,
what is his thought pattern?
If we felt that he is going
through the old patterns,
we try to change that
by saying something out
of his comfort
zone, which is how
iboga works for us humans, is
to make us think differently.
I have to say, he's
doing very well today.
And because he's
a strong guy, he
was trying to be
brave and go up and be
excited for the world and chat.
But we felt that
he wasn't really--
it's more about pride.
So we told him, you know, OK.
It's time for you to take
time and go back to bed
and try to think about all of
the stuff that we discussed.
>> Last night's journey was
a magnificent experience with
our client.
He went into very deep process,
relived some of his child life
experiences, and almost had
like a live review this morning
when the sun came up and
the birds were singing.
He was like a child,
bouncing up and down
with all this excitement
and the deep healing that
has happened and
is still happening.
And it's with such
gratitude that I'm
living my life
purpose of giving back
to humanity the gift of
self-love, self-actualization,
transformation, and to
give people the opportunity
to really connect with their
true inner selves, who they
really, really are deep
down inside, without filters
and expectations of society.
It's a big
responsibility as well
to be part of people's
transformational process.
But it is with such
a big reward that we
partake in each person's journey
together, from the beginning,
during, and even afterwards
to walk the path together
with them.
[MUSIC PLAYING]